All right.
Welcome back.
So far we've seen how to do things like open file read it and close it.
And what I'm going to show you in this video is basically the same exact stuff but just a slightly different
syntax that's really commonly used.
So it looks like this with.
And then open a file.
The file name.
And then as whatever name we want to put here assuming it's not a reserve word.
So in this case file.
So we're not actually saving into a variable ourselves.
Put whatever name we want in here.
And then inside of here.
After the colon indented whatever code we write will run no matter what.
So all we have is a file that read.
But the other really cool thing we can do here are actually that we don't have to do is no matter what
happens whether file to read works or there's an error and things go disastrously.
The file is going to be closed automatically.
We don't have to manually do it.
And so that's why I have this down here file but closed is already true.
We never called it.
So the with statement is really popular for that reason we just don't have to manually close the file
anymore it's done automatically for us.
OK.
So back over here I think our file is closed.
Yes.
So I'm just going to reread that file and using the with syntax.
So with Open Story TXI the as I'll call it f just to be different here and then indent and we'll do
a file that read and but which are variable.
Let's call it data equals effort read.
OK.
Hit enter.
If I look at F and we run f dot closed it's already close.
I try and read it gives me an error just like we saw in the last video.
It's files close.
You can't read it.
I don't know what you're talking about.
And if I look at data here's the data we read in.
So again nice syntax opens a file reads it and then automatically closes.
If you're curious behind the scenes what's actually going on when we open up this file.
So let me do it again.
Open and what they call that story.
Text me if I look at f there's this method called enter.
And anytime we have a with block entry is going to be called and all that this actually does is return
the file.
The file object so nothing exciting.
But now there's the opposite which is called Exit whenever we have one of these with statements.
When it's done the very end no matter how things went it was good or bad.
There's an error or not it's going to call the Dunder exit method on F..
And so when we call that manually it closes the file.
So this is like an interface.
It is an interface for these with statements.
So it's not limited to files for opening and reading files.
So we can create our own classes our own objects that can work with with statements as long as they
have an enter and exit method on them.
Enter is called at the beginning and exit is called No matter what afterwards.
OK.
Now if I run after the exit and we look at f dot closed it's true.
All right.
So you'll see me using this syntax and most people using this syntax pretty much all over the place.
You don't have to remember to close it.
It's a little shorter and more succinct.
And these two operations are related.
So you might as well put them together rather than doing things on separate lines saving into a variable
and all that.
OK.
Next up we're going to talk about writing to a file.
But of course first exercise type.